how-to/maintain: update doc for slow-log (#2148)
pingcap/docs: how-to/maintain/identify-abnormal-queries/identify-slow-queries.md

## Memory mapping in slow log

You can query the content of the slow query log by querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY` table. Each column name in the table corresponds to one field name in the slow log. For table structure, see the introduction to the `SLOW_QUERY` table in [Information Schema](/reference/system-databases/information-schema.md#information-schema).

> **Note:**
>
> Every time you query the `SLOW_QUERY` table, TiDB reads and parses the current slow query log.

> For TiDB 4.0, `SLOW_QUERY` supports querying the slow log of any period of time, including the rotated slow log file. You need to specify the `TIME` range to locate the slow log files that need to be parsed. If you don't specify the `TIME` range, TiDB only parses the current slow log file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For TiDB 4.0, `SLOW_QUERY` supports querying the slow log of any period of time, including the rotated slow log file. You need to specify the `TIME` range to locate the slow log files that need to be parsed. If you don't specify the `TIME` range, TiDB only parses the current slow log file. For example:
```

    where time > '2020-03-10 00:00:00'
      and time < '2020-03-11 00:00:00';
    ```

    ```
    +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
    | count(*) | min(time)                  | max(time)                  |
    +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
    | 2618049  | 2020-03-10 00:00:00.427138 | 2020-03-10 23:00:22.716728 |
    +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
    ```

> **Note:**
>
> If the slow log files of the specified time range are removed, or there is no slow query, the query returns NULL.

TiDB 4.0 adds the [`CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY`](/reference/system-databases/information-schema.md#cluster_slow_query-table) system table to query the slow query information of all TiDB nodes. The table schema of the `CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table differs from that of the `SLOW_QUERY` table in that an `INSTANCE` column is added to `CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY`. The `INSTANCE` column represents the TiDB node address of the row information on the slow query. You can use `CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` the way you do with [`SLOW_QUERY`](/reference/system-databases/information-schema.md#slow_query-table).

> When you query the `CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table, TiDB pushes the computation and the judgment down to other nodes for execution, instead of retrieving all slow query information from other nodes to be executed by one TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you query the `CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY` table, TiDB pushes the computation and the judgment down to other nodes, instead of retrieving all slow query information from other nodes and executing the operations on one TiDB node.
```
You have to say "one TiDB instance/node/etc" rather than "TiDB" alone.

+-----------------------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
```

### Query slow queries whose execution plan is changed

When the execution plan of SQL statements of the same category is changed, the execution slows down, because the statistics is outdated, or the statistics is not accurate enough to reflect the real data distribution. You can use the following SQL statement to query SQL statements with different execution plans.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select count(distinct plan_digest) as count,
       digest,
       min(query)
from cluster_slow_query
group by digest
having count > 1
limit 3\G
```

> Usage example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output example:
```

```
***************************[ 1. row ]***************************
count      | 2
digest     | 17b4518fde82e32021877878bec2bb309619d384fca944106fcaf9c93b536e94
min(query) | SELECT DISTINCT c FROM sbtest25 WHERE id BETWEEN ? AND ? ORDER BY c [arguments: (291638, 291737)];
***************************[ 2. row ]***************************
count      | 2
digest     | 9337865f3e2ee71c1c2e740e773b6dd85f23ad00f8fa1f11a795e62e15fc9b23
min(query) | SELECT DISTINCT c FROM sbtest22 WHERE id BETWEEN ? AND ? ORDER BY c [arguments: (215420, 215519)];
***************************[ 3. row ]***************************
count      | 2
digest     | db705c89ca2dfc1d39d10e0f30f285cbbadec7e24da4f15af461b148d8ffb020
min(query) | SELECT DISTINCT c FROM sbtest11 WHERE id BETWEEN ? AND ? ORDER BY c [arguments: (303359, 303458)];
```

> Then you can query different plan using the SQL fingerprint in the query result above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can query the different plans using the SQL fingerprint in the query result above:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select min(plan),
       plan_digest
from cluster_slow_query
where digest='17b4518fde82e32021877878bec2bb309619d384fca944106fcaf9c93b536e94'
group by plan_digest\G
```

> Usage example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output example:
```

          └─TableReader_15      root    100.00131380758702      data:TableRangeScan_14
            └─TableScan_14      cop     100.00131380758702      table:sbtest25, range:[502791,502890], keep order:false
plan_digest: 6afbbd21f60ca6c6fdf3d3cd94f7c7a49dd93c00fcf8774646da492e50e204ee
*************************** 2. row ***************************
  min(plan):    Sort_6                  root    1                       sbtest.sbtest25.c:asc
        └─HashAgg_12            root    1                       group by:sbtest.sbtest25.c, funcs:firstrow(sbtest.sbtest25.c)->sbtest.sbtest25.c
          └─TableReader_13      root    1                       data:HashAgg_8
            └─HashAgg_8         cop     1                       group by:sbtest.sbtest25.c,
              └─TableScan_11    cop     1.2440069558121831      table:sbtest25, range:[472745,472844], keep order:false
```

### Query the number of slow queries for each TiDB node in a cluster

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select instance, count(*) from information_schema.cluster_slow_query where time >= "2020-03-06 00:00:00" and time < now() group by instance;
```

> Usage example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output example:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT * FROM
    (SELECT /*+ AGG_TO_COP(), HASH_AGG() */ count(*),
         min(time),
         sum(query_time) AS sum_query_time,
         sum(Process_time) AS sum_process_time,
         sum(Wait_time) AS sum_wait_time,
         sum(Commit_time),
         sum(Request_count),
         sum(process_keys),
         sum(Write_keys),
         max(Cop_proc_max),
         min(query),min(prev_stmt),
         digest
    FROM information_schema.CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY
    WHERE time >= '2020-03-10 13:24:00'
            AND time < '2020-03-10 13:27:00'
            AND Is_internal = false
    GROUP BY  digest) AS t1
WHERE t1.digest NOT IN
    (SELECT /*+ AGG_TO_COP(), HASH_AGG() */ digest
    FROM information_schema.CLUSTER_SLOW_QUERY
    WHERE time >= '2020-03-10 13:20:00'
            AND time < '2020-03-10 13:23:00'
    GROUP BY  digest)
ORDER BY  t1.sum_query_time DESC limit 10\G
```

> Usage example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output example:
```
